We thought regardless of what would happen, we'd figure out a solution and we'd get on with it.
And by gosh, it's happened that way.
So in hindsight, A&M was absolutely the absolute best thing that happened to Kathy and I. Have you summarized the special characteristics of being an Aggie?
You live it, you don't talk about it would be the only other thing I'd add to it.
It's, it's, it's, I think it would, Kathy was at UT System when bonfire happened.
And, and we were really impacted because there was a D2 fish that was killed on the stack.
And so I was down here that first day not even knowing that.
And then I was over with D2.
We had another one that was pretty injured as a freshman.
And she had a hard time and I had a hard time explaining to people that we knew in Austin what it was like to be an Aggie.
And we still do.
And so you just don't, you just are.
You don't explain it, you just are.
And I don't think it's any, it may be different for some of the students, but I mean, we've got, it was funny, our next door neighbors, when we moved in in 90 to the house we're in, we're big Notre Dame.
Both kids were gonna go to Notre Dame.
Well, the oldest is a sophomore here now.
And he has the same perspective of A&M that we do.
And his younger brother, who was
Most vociferous about not ever being an Aggie, and how could anybody be an Aggie?
It's probably going to be here, too.
What are the major factors that contribute to the development of that attitude, spirit, feeling?
We make things happen.
We want to have an impact.
There's a camaraderie here that you don't see.
There's other places of shared values.
What causes that camaraderie, that sharing?
At the base level, it's got to be Rudder and Williams' leadership and the people they brought here.
Because that helps set the tone.
But it's something that the students even going back to the first classes in Sully are all imbued with.
We're different.
We're proud of it.
We're focused.
We want to achieve.
We've been successful.
We want to be successful.
All those kind of things I think are all wrapped up in it.
I have a theory that there are some inclusive muster, bonfire, silver taps, yell practice, commencement.
Everything.
It's a tradition piece.
It's everything.
I mean, that's what it is.
And, yeah, the old 2% rule kind of goes by the wayside.
I mean, it's how you deal with others, and that's a function of silver taps and muster.
Because you're talking about people that have passed away that you may never have even known, but they're an Aggie, and you feel just as badly that they're not going to be here to make their mark.
But it's also the other education and it's the academic education.
It's the little things like going to the Grove to watch the movie in the summers and everybody cattened up and watching all the sophomores and juniors have long hair and we get it all whitewalled in August.
It's staying in touch with people that you never thought you'd ever stay in touch with.
It's walking into a room full of Aggies and feeling immediately at ease.
And able to talk with people and not be able to do that in other situations.
It's having a different language in some ways when you talk with people.
It's about, at least the ones that I know, you don't hesitate to help connect to other Aggies.
And I've hired other Aggies sight unseen because they were Aggies and specifically because they were in the MSC.
Doesn't mean that I didn't
have some challenges, but there's a common chemistry we all have to go through here.
If you were a consultant, A&M's leadership today, what advice would you give them about A&M's future and how to do it?
You're asking the wrong person.
And how to do it.
I think we aspire to greatness.
We set good metrics, good objectives to get there, but I think we have lost sight.
of what, of a vision of what this university can do.
I think we can quantify what we want it to do, top ten here, these kind of things.
I think we're really good at that.
I think we've lost sight of not so much saying we're going to be the premier university but making it work day in and day out to get there.
I don't, maybe I'm just overly sensitized on how we've all gotten so successful we're also fragmented.
There's not a single, there's not like when we said let's go to the moon, let's go to the moon when
I suspect when Rudder and Williams said, we're gonna be great, this is what we're gonna do, they did it, and the rest followed on, there's not that compelling vision.
And sometimes I worry about that.
We're real good at talking about leadership, but what's leadership?
I mean, to me, leadership is the guy that stands 10 foot out in front of his rank and takes the bullet more often than not.
And we haven't seen a lot of that.
I mean, we see people say they're leaders,
So we need to get a vision of what leadership is and a vision of what this university is.
Let's make believe that you had the fiscal capability to make a truly important gift to Texas A&M.
For what purpose would you want that gift used?
Student leadership.
Students in any of the real programs, and they can be a small society, they get hands-on experience of what it's like to work with people and how to achieve things and how to work together towards a common peace.
I would look to see that with money left and right.
Are you saying the kind of experiences you had in MSC?
Not even just the MSC, even down to small clubs.
I think the MSC in many ways is really great in many areas, but it's weak in areas.
The reason I was a committee chair, the reason I loved being a committee chair, we were a small group at that time.
You could see measurable, it wasn't quite a final, it was more qualified, but you could see measurable results that it was having on people.
So if it's a small group,
club that's focused on a certain area here at A&M, seed that.
Give them opportunities to grow, that they may not have access to that.
It's like how we struggled to get Operation Pegasus.
I mean, it was a nickel and dime
bailiwick deal, but we sure pulled it off, those kinds of things.
And it would be things that, it would be giving students opportunities to achieve what they didn't think they could that's not academically based, it's not research based, and maybe not even large organization based, but it sure makes them a future community leader.
And so it would be those kind of things.
Okay, of all of my questions, we've got two more.
to what A&M former students, faculty, friends, and so forth do you feel most grateful and why?
Individually or as organizations?
No, individuals.
From student years, very clearly, Jack Williams would be at the very top.
Followed very closely
by John Coldes and Wayne Stark.
There were a lot of others.
You and Carolyn.
I mean you at that time were getting ready to go to UTEP and that's what we started to talk about was my year in the MSC.
So people that Jack had brought here or helped nurture here to grow the can-do attitude.
You now more than back then because
You unabashedly sat down and helped me try to figure out how to do some research that I was stuck in the mud on.
So it's you and your peers that do things like that.
And there's others.
Vaughn would be in that category.
Even Harry Schaffer would be in that category.
People that took the time to energize and get you focused about where it was going.
And over the last 25 years, Jim Reynolds and Jane Bailey would certainly fit into that one.
Students, there's a bunch of us that still stay up with each other.
I don't talk to Fred very much, but when I do, it's just like old times.
Haven't seen Sue Rudd in ages, but Sue still contributes back on the board level.
So you've got, and Bob Harvey and I caught up some chatting.
Chet and I may even do some stuff on his campaign that's going around.
So it's those kind of things, but the real glue
were those names that I just mentioned.
And probably the unsung here and all that just because it was such a tough year for my freshman was Dean Hannigan.
If he had told me if I didn't get my act together, I was gonna be out doing other things.
It took a while to sink in.
It took,
doing Pegasus and Hearing Corps staff and then at the same breath saying you don't qualify to focus on the grades.
So I got the grades up enough that Wayne let me into the things that I did in the city.
But it's people like that in Hal Gaines.
Okay.
I've only got one more question.
Do you think of anything we should have dealt with we haven't?
a lot more than maybe the freshman and sophomore years in the years on campus would be what makes Aggies what Aggies are.
If there's a sequel to the oral history, that's a fascinating subject and I'll give you an anecdotal piece.
We didn't do anything in D2 spectacular except become an outstanding unit three out of four years.
That unit, and I was just
blown away when I looked at John Adams' book.
Just General Moore has like six or seven times it's won General Moore since those years.
It's won Hockmouth seven or eight times.
It won the grade chord.
So two or three years out of every five it has one of the three major chords on their shoulders.
you walk up in that dorm, one of the things I'll do after leave Vaughn is I'm going to go back up to the dorm because I do it once a year, it's still the same value, it's more organized, more focused, but it's still the same attention to we're going to be the best.
We may not get there, but we aspire to be the best.
We did that in the MSC.
I know that student government did it in their ways as well.
That aspiration, there's something in there so
we did the oral history project you know you're doing the really neat stuff about how we got to stage one but then how does that carry forward over time and as we've gotten bigger it's probably got more spread out but I'll bet you there's still that same important pockets of people doing stuff some of them may not have any idea why they're doing it but it's all part of the core values here and that's what makes an Aggie an Aggie so that's the sequel
Last question, what feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M now?
No feeling.
I mean, it's me.
It's my best friend at times.
It's my best enemy.
And that's very rare.
I get frustrated when I see things that I can't, because of where I am in my life, have an impact.
And I could see things being so much better if they were done just a little differently.
Not a lot, but a little.
There was a time when we started the MSC enrichment fund, I wanted to really help that grow.
And it was way premature.
They had to learn how to build the infrastructure to walk first.
So I'm impatient about some things, but it is, it's everything Kathy and I are.
If it hadn't been for A&M, I don't think we would have set out to be in business together to do the things we're doing.
We close $15,000 in business in a week for a two-person shop.
That's pretty cool.
And that's after a $50,000 project we just completed.
So we're doing nothing but playing MSC.
And that's because the environment we were allowed to grow within and make mistakes here.
You just don't see that anywhere else.
And people we talk to, you just don't see it.
So what would I do differently?
And what am I as an Aggie?
It's all those things.
And the hardest thing is to think of your son wants to be a three-star general or four-star general.
And we don't have many of those.
We have some.
And his attitude is...
I can be one of those few.
And I'm sitting here going, yeah, but West Point is, but you know what?
I went and got him on summer recruiting list today, so who knows?
He's as much an Aggie as we are.